I want to write wiki page regarding findings as submission of sprint story. Its about building module for long term forecasting as extension to existing mid term forecasting. Long term forecasting is to be done for 12 moths with prediction for each month. Below is text that had initial requirement put in place from business "Background
The enterprise planning module is used by firms to forecast their medium to long term financial positions. The financial positions could be simple cash or assets and liabilities. The functionality allows the user to setup a cross tab structure with Date buckets across the top and categories for rows. The date buckets are defined by the user but are typically weekly (12 week forecast) or Monthly (12 month forecast).
There are two high level approaches to this style of forecasting:

Rolling forecast – In this case there is always a fixed number of date buckets projected forward. As a period ends (becomes actual) a new period is added to the end of the forecast. For example, if there is a weekly forecast, at the end of each a new week bucket is added to the end of the forecast.
Structured Forecast – In this case the initial projection is maintained until all periods have been completed. In this case as each period becomes actual no bucket is added to the end. For example, a 12 week forecast will take 12 weeks and no new projections will be added. At the end of the period a brand new 12 week forecast would be started.
Each Forecast is performed at an Entity level (rather than at the bank account). An entity may have many bank accounts which would be included in aggregate as part of the forecast. This is done because many of forecasted cashflows dont have a bank account associated with them yet, they are too far in the future.
With each forecast there will eventually be "Actuals" which are data related to what happened. In many cases this will be bank transactions on the bank statement, but it can also be other financial data. The user will need to define the source of this data when the plan is initially setup.
Once a period has become "Actual" users will compare the forecast versus this actual to determine the differences.

Requirements
There will be two broad requirements based on the style of forecast

Project the next period as a forecast is rolled over
Generate a full set of period forecasts
For both types of forecast there will be Historic Actuals data, and there will be historic forecast data.

1 – Period rollover
This process will be triggered at the end of each month or week. The user will "Rollover" the forecast. At this point a request will be made for the model to generate the next period. This projection will be for a period that starts 11 weeks or 11 Months in future. A project will need to generate a projection for each category on the plan. The project will be for sum of movements (not the projected end balance). Once the projection has been generated the data will be stored in Integrity, and the normal workflows will proceed.

2 – Full Projection
In this case the user will create a new Forecast Plan Definition, at this point the model will be requested to generate a set of forecast for all periods into the future. For example, a weekly forecast would have a projection for each week for 12 weeks and for each category.

Data
Bank Statements: Already used in short term forecasts
Contract Settlement: To capture Treasury diary that is known into the future and can be large movements
Contract Forecast: Contracts with an estimated bank account.
Forecasts: To capture non treasury cash flows
Payments: To capture historic operational payments
Considerations
The Data is a Snapshot per day.

Bank data is easy we can assume the transaction data arrives on the same day as the value date so training for a date is simple. No need to think about when the data arrived.

Each training data set will have an "as at" date and data which is in the future cannot be used.

The data will regularly change between data sources and for each day.

In the Audit tables there can be multiple records on a date or there may be several days without changes. We just want to choose the last record for a date (last update from this date or prior).

Data can move between data sources between each day. On Day 1 the contract will be a forecast, and on Day 2 it will be a contract settlement. Each record will be in one source only per day." , Below are points came out of discussion with business team "Below points were addressed during discussion with Integrity team,

1. API payload will be sillilar to mid-term forecast, however design choice to be made during build on how forecasted results will be consumed by end user (How we will bucket the 12-month forecast? is it to be in API response or handled at UI end.) (Q1)

2. Build to be done from perspective of Rollover strategy. (Q1)

3. Dataset (be it synthetic) will be shared by integrity team to begin Exploratory data analysis. (Q2)
4. We will have to explore Data transformation strategies (for training) to bring it upto moth level of granularity (Q3) .

Further comments over model selection can be made post analysing the dataset." Now we need to write document for answering below key questions "
1. What's the final view needed for enterprise planning. 
2. What additional datasets needed to fulfill enterprise planning. Today we have Bank statement, bank balances and Settlement data.
3. How different it is from midterm forecast? " . We can skip question no 2 as no data has been received so far from business. We want to propose that model can be built similar to mid term forecasting approach but with transformation of granularity of training data to monthly average (roll up upto month)  
